Scenario planning:-

This is a list of the number of scenarios I would have for the campaign's episode 3.

Scenario 1:

When they return, they find New Genesis as a complete ruin, with chaos units roaming about. They defeat them. They explore the wreckage and find that Affan and most of the population are unharmed as they had hidden themselves within the chambers underneath New Genesis, which were the former home of trolls. 

Scenario 2:

A month afterwards, Jahin, Affan and Fairuz and seven loyal soldiers arrive at Del-Rook - The legion's northern city and assembly-point of their northern flank. Kojac, Gashinar and their armies are also there, and they are in the middle of a battle. Jahin and his friends join in. The battle is won, and Del-Rook is burned to the ground.

Scenario 3:

Early the following day, the allies start their march and reach the outskirts of the city before dusk of the third day. The legion is busy defending their city from the Imperials who are attacking from the South and East. Elementals under the command of a mysterious mage (later revealed to a resurrection of Mahir) are also present. As the allies are distracting the enemies, Jahin spots a mountain beside which the city is situated and notices a mine entrance. 

Scenario 4:

They arrive at the other side, and see two suits of armor lying about. A game of straw-drawing is played, then Fairuz and Affan don the armor and Jahin stays to guard the entrance, as he drew the shortest straw. Fairuz and Affan easily blend in with the crowd and make their way into the castle. Here, at the castle they make their way into the throne-room and see that the emperor is too well guarded and decide to retreat. Just at that moment an elite guard approaches them and orders them to guard the princess. Having no other options, they accept. While guarding princess Shifti, the princess continuously talks away about the fact they she would like to leave the city and explore the land. Fairuz, seeing that this could an opportunity to earn a friend, takes off his helmet and reveals his true identity. The princess is at first shocked, but after Fairuz explains their cause and why they were fighting the legions, the princess has a change of heart and decides to join them. As they are about to escape, they hear the alarm and soldiers coming after them, and they start to run. They hastily reach the mountain entrance, but are ambushed by a Dark Terror. The Terror falls dead, as Jahin beheads him from behind, and the heroes escape. 

Scenario 5:

The heroes resurface, and return to the ally camp, not before slaying off Xina, the queen of the naga, who was leading the naga herself. The allies then retreat.

Scenario 6:

They meet Mullyra and also encounter the Northmen. Jahin also manages to befriend a wolf, which he names Balto (showing my respect to the Alaskan legend). A battle ensues, with the orcs being victorious.

Scenario 7:

Jahin arrives at a city and meets Afrin, and her band of rebels. They led a joint attack on the enemy, but this ends with Jahin and his troops being ambushed and taken prisoners.

Scenario 8:

A week passes by in the cold northern prison. By good fortune, Jahin manages to trick a guard and escape. He frees Fairuz from his cells, but as they are about to free the others, Jahin hears a cry for help and they rush towards the noise. They enter a cell, and find that three guards are about to torture a girl, no older than Jahin. Seeing this act of atrocity, Jahin beheads a guard from behind and then a fight ensues. Jahin and Fairuz triumph and free the girl. The girl introduces herself as Ariana, a mage and explorer. The trio then explore the prison and free the rest, and retreat Southwards. 

Scenario 9:

They arrive at the central city, and find that Kojac. and Afrin are fighting the royalists. They join Kojac's group and successfully enter the castle.

Scenario 10:

Most of the castle is deserted, as majority of the soldiers are outside. They make their way into the throne room and fight Queen Ysura, and her undead minions. They slay the queen, and are victorious.

Scenario 11:

Jahin faces a mutiny, but is guided by Shifti and Fairuz to gather his loyal troops and face Mahir in a one-on-one battle North of New Genesis. Jahin is the victor, but Mahir teleports away at the last moment

Scenario 12:

 A fortnight after the mutiny. New Genesis is besieged by a massive elemental army led by Jalin- now, an undead knight under the command of Mor-Inal - and Mahir. Mahir demands Jahin's surrender, but Jahin refuses, saying that the Mahir that was facing him today was not the Mahir he knew as a best friend. The battle soon follows.  Jahin decides to use the Stone  of Resurrection to revive Jalin, as he meets the proper conditions for revival. Jahin fights his way through elementals and with the help of Ariana, Shifti and Ashhab, manage to bring Jalin under control. The Stone of Resurrection is used and Jalin returns to his former self. He is also granted immortality, but it is the same as Jahin - no regeneration or immunity. The elemental army disappears and Mahir escapes again.

Scenario 13:

The battle at the Twin Cities is won with the help of a slave rebellion. Jahin then addresses the freed slaves and they immediately join his cause. The cities are burnt to the ground and Affan returns to New Genesis with a few troops and the freed civilians

Scenario 14:

When the alliance arrives there, the vampire fort is already being attacked by the Aragwaithi. drakes and saurians.

Scenario 15:

While traveling through the swamp they are attacked again by Mahir and his elemental-undead army. The allies repel the army, Mahir escapes yet again.

Scenario 16:

The human, orcish and dwarven armies attack the southernmost city. The city is filled with vampires and the allies were gradually losing. The tides are turned as Galec, Amorith and General (Elvish name) - a southern elf commander arrive with their armies. The city falls and ends with the death of Princess Solita - youngest of the High Methusalem's children. Jahin frees the slaves and Kojac orders the city to be burnt down.

Scenario 17:

So, the allies board the ships and set sail towards the vampire capital. After a day, they arrive at the capital's harbor and immediately conquer it, catching the vampires by surprise. An epic battle ensues, neither side giving way. Jahin manages to interrogate a vampire captain and finds out the vampire High Methusalem is underneath the city. He notices a trapdoor, and enters it, followed by Fairuz, Jalin, Ashhab, Ariana, Balto, and a few human troops. Shifty stays above to command the human army.

Scenario 18:

While exploring, the underground catacombs, Jahin, Balto and Ariana get separated from the rest by accidentally pressing a hidden button. Failing to blast away the barrier, Ariana suggests that they exploring further. During their exploration they find two pendants, that could protect them for any ancient magic spells (especially the ones used by Mor-Inal and Shirzo). Although these pendants do not grant protection from fireballs, ice balls, or cold tempests, or shadow tempests. Ariana tells Jahin about her immortality. Jahin returns with the same answer, surprising Ariana. Jahin also accidentally blunders something and makes Ariana suspect that Jahin likes her. Jahin also finds another Immortality potion. He finds an empty bowl, and gives Balto, a third of the potion to drink, as he was feeling thirsty. Jahin decides to save the rest for his friends.

Scenario 19:

Exploring further, they enter the throne-room and find that the fighting has already began. Jahin, Ariana, and Balto join in.The High Methusalem transforms into his ultimate form and the real battle begins. The vampire king manages to strike Jahin with his tail. Jahin is flung across the room and hits the wall, shattering the vial containing the potion. Jahin recovers, but is helpless to watch the magical liquid get absorbed by the cave floor. In the end, the vampire king is vanquished by Ashhab, who manages to summon a light-beam equal to the intensity of Sela (Irdya's sun). 

Scenario 20:

Aforementioned, the Chaos Army arrives under the command of Lord Devan, the high demon lord. The battle starts soon afterwards, and are slowly joined by the elves and later the Aragwaithi. After five days of endless slaughter, Devan challenges Jahin to a duel.

Scenario 21:

A terrible duel follows. But, in the end only Lord Devan is the only one left of the opposition. Lord Devan decides to use Magic to kill Jahin, but he prevented by Sedoc, who stabs him from behind, and Galec, who takes the magic blast. The demon lord, in a final strike, unleashes a sort of inferno. That engulfs Sedoc and himself, and ends with the sight of them being vaporized.

Scenario 22:

A month later, as winter is at its worse, the much anticipated drake army arrive led by the dragon generals. Things take a turn for the worse as, the Chaos empire also arrives, this time under the command of Lady Nadia. The Stormkind witch is furious with the humans, dwarves and elves, and unleashes her entire horde of demons (Storm-tides, Slashing Gales, and the works). The situation is turned hopeless as Mahir and his elemental arrives, but he chose his starting position wrongly, leaving him to fight the Chaos Legions. The elves arrive on the dawn of the third day, and start fighting the drakes and elementals simultaneously. Ashhab has used the book's spells and created healing runes the fortifications to protect Jahin's soldiers. He also uses some magic dust, he made to enchant the waters around New Genesis to damage the drakes. Ariana, after much concentration, finally manages to summon elementals. As the battle continues, the drakes, having failed to penetrate the defenses of New Genesis, leave. This gives Jahin an opportunity to end things with Mahir once and for all. Jahin faces Mahir in single combat and manages to stab the mage, declaring that the Mahir he once knew as his best friend had perished long ago. Mahir, injured, leaves in a puff of smoke. The Chaos legions are still attacking, but are forced to retreat, when their numbers drop to a comparatively lower value. But, lady Nadia, vows to return with tenfold more soldiers.

Scenario 23:

When the first signs of spring are seen, Mahir arrives with Mor-Inal with a huge elemental and undead army. Mor-Inal leaves the battlefield, saying he has other matters to attend to. Mahir swears that this time New Genesis will fall, and uses a type of magic that summons a powerful tornado that wipes out the cities secondary frontier defenses.

Note: I wrote till the end of the campaign, but I maintain a strict rule of allowing only twenty-five to thirty scenarios per episode at most. So, the remainder of the episodes are moved to Episode 4 (Retribution).